Let's just do some commentary
on reactive Angular,
specifically kind of state management.
And I wanna introduce two patterns.
That is kind of a front runner
to what I would say like full
on proper state management,
which in the angular context,
when I talk about state management or
if I'm going to do a personally,
I'm using NgRx.
Now NgRx is a bit of a mind warp.
It took me I would say a good five or
six weeks of completely fundamentally
flipping my entire paradigm on
its head about how I thought
about applications structure,
and how we manage complexity,
the estate management,
control flow and code volume.
And so
what I'm hoping to do in the next hour or
less, give or take is I want to set, or
establish a couple
incremental points that you
can use to kind of launch
yourself out to start
to think about proper state management,
and
really ease that barriered
to entry to using NGOrx.
Because there are some things that I wish
I would have known that if I'd had a few
fundamental concepts in place,
it would have saved a lot of calls.
A lot of very angry,
ugly crying calls to Rob Wormald about why
his library was so stupid and
why he was such a bad programmer.
And then,
at one point like the light clicked and
I realized that like Redux NgRx
the most amazing thing in the world.
So with that said,
I wanna introduce two transitional
patterns that I believe are very useful.
And I think really set the stage for
doing proper state management
in your anglar application.
And that is the facade pattern and
a service with a subject.
So reactive angular.
Specifically, the facade pattern and
even more specifically,
a service with a subject.
Now, let me preempt this
entire conversation
by saying that facades
are controversial and
they can absolutely be misused.
So Mike Ryan,
who is one of the co-authors of NgRx.
So you have Brandon Edwards, Mike Ryan,
Rob Rodet, Rob Wormald he handed off
to these two wonderful, beautiful human
beings, and they're doing an amazing job.
This is one point,
I would say contention, but
we definitely feel differently
about this and more so
I have to explain what I
mean when I say a facade,
because you can definitely do
a lot of bad things with it.
And so, they are controversial, and
there's people that just don't like them.
I would say the same could be said for
a service with a subject.
Now, when i talk about facades,
they are a pure delegation layer.
They should not handle business logic.
What a facade is designed to do
is to provide a clean separation
between components and
the rest of your application.
So what's funny is just as inputs and
outputs,
provide an API for your components,
a facade provides an API for
your application.
And so most individuals have no
problem thinking of inputs and
outputs as like a component API.
Think of facades is just an API for
your application and you're simply saying,
in order for these layers to communicate,
this is what you're able to do,
you're able to consume this
information and delegate these events.
What is also important is an excellent,
way to incrementally integrate NgRx.
So again, if you're Greenfield
awesome just start from
the beginning go full NgRx.
But I have seen a lot of
projects where you show up and
there's no semblance of state management,
and
you need to figure out how to introduce
this without breaking everything.
Like, how do you do this without
ripping up the floorboards?
Well the answer is a facade.
And so not only that is they're great for
mocking out a business logic layer.
This is not in my notes.
But what I found is that when
you're working on a team, and
you have a distribution between junior
developers and senior developers,
most junior developers are pretty
comfortable working the component layer.
And so I will distribute the effort
where I will put junior developers
on the component layer,
they're doing just layout.
Then, I will have a mid senior developer
essentially write the facade that
either provide some mock data or mock
functionality for the component layer.
Then I will have a mid senior developer
on the other side of the facade handle
all of the complex,
high level implementation details of
how do I go get data from the server?
How do I handle this
complex business logic?
Well this is not only a way to your app
but to segment your effort in a way that
makes sense when you're working on a
distributed team with varying skill sets.
So that little point didn't cost you
anything but if you implement this
depending on your team it could actually
probably save you a ton of time and money.